README.md, before:

# OmniAuth Shibboleth strategy

OmniAuth Shibboleth strategy is an OmniAuth strategy for authenticating through Shibboleth (SAML). If you do not know OmniAuth, please visit OmniAuth wiki.

https://github.com/intridea/omniauth/wiki

The detail of the authentication middleware Shibboleth is introduced in Shibboleth wiki.

https://wiki.shibboleth.net/

OmniAuth basically works as a middleware of Rack applications. It provides environment variable named 'omniauth.auth' (auth hash) after authenticating a user. The 'auth hash' includes the user's attributes. By providing user attributes in the fixed format, applications can easily implement authentication function using multiple authentication methods.

OmniAuth Shibboleth strategy uses the 'auth hash' for providing user attributes passed by Shibboleth SP. It enables developers to use Shibboleth and the other authentication methods, including local auth, together in one application.

Currently, this document is written for Rails applications. If you tried the other environments and it requires some difficulities, please let me know in the Issues page.

https://github.com/toyokazu/omniauth-shibboleth/issues

## Getting Started

### Installation

    % gem install omniauth-shibboleth

### Setup Gemfile

    % cd rails-app
    % vi Gemfile
    gem 'omniauth-shibboleth'

### Setup Shibboleth Strategy

To use OmniAuth Shibboleth strategy as a middleware in your rails application, add the following file to your rails application initializer directory.

    % vi config/initializer/omniauth.rb
    Rails.application.config.middleware.use OmniAuth::Builder do
      provider :shibboleth, {
        :extra_fields => [
          :"unscoped-affiliation",
          :entitlement
        ]
      }
    end

In the above example, 'unscoped-affiliation' and 'entitlement' attributes are additionally provided in the raw_info field. They can be referred like request.env["omniauth.auth"]["extra"]["raw_info"]["unscoped-affiliation"]. The detail of the omniauth auth hash schema is described in the following page.

https://github.com/intridea/omniauth/wiki/Auth-Hash-Schema

'eppn' attribute is used as uid field. 'displayName' and 'mail' attributes are provided as request.env["omniauth.auth"]["info"]["name"] and request.env["omniauth.auth"]["info"]["email"].

These can be changed by :uid_field and :fields option.

    % vi config/initializer/omniauth.rb
    Rails.application.config.middleware.use OmniAuth::Builder do
      provider :shibboleth, {
        :uid_field => :uid,
        :fields => []
      }
    end

In the above example, Shibboleth strategy does not pass any :info fields and use 'uid' attribute as uid fields.

### How to authenticate users

In your application, simply direct users to '/auth/shibboleth' to have them sign in via your company's Shibboleth SP and IdP. '/auth/shibboleth' url simply redirect users to '/auth/shibboleth/callback', so thus you must protect '/auth/shibboleth/callback' by Shibboleth SP.

Example shibd.conf:

    <Location /application_path/auth/shibboleth/callback>
      AuthType shibboleth
      ShibRequestSetting requireSession 1
      require valid-user
    </Location>

Shibboleth strategy just checks the existence of Shib-Session-ID or Shib-Application-ID.

If you want to use omniauth-shibboleth without Apache or IIS, you can try **rack-saml**. It supports a part of Shibboleth SP functions.

https://github.com/toyokazu/rack-saml

Shibboleth strategy assumes the attributes are provided via environment variables because the use of ShibUseHeaders option may cause some problems. The details are discussed in the following page:

https://wiki.shibboleth.net/confluence/display/SHIB2/NativeSPSpoofChecking

To provide Shibboleth attributes via environment variables, we can not use proxy_balancer base approach. Currently we can realize it by using Phusion Passenger as an application container. An example construction pattern is shown in presence_checker application (https://github.com/toyokazu/presence_checker/).

### debug mode

When you deploy a new application, you may want to confirm the assumed attributes are correctly provided by Shibboleth SP. OmniAuth Shibboleth strategy provides a confirmation option :debug. If you set :debug true, you can see the environment variables provided at the /auth/shibboleth/callback uri.

    % vi config/initializer/omniauth.rb
    Rails.application.config.middleware.use OmniAuth::Builder do
      provider :shibboleth, { :debug => true }
    end

## License (MIT License)

Copyright (C) 2011 by Toyokazu Akiyama.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Modify README to reflect fork Modify code to use headers instead of environment variables

README.md, after:

# OmniAuth Shibboleth strategy

OmniAuth Shibboleth strategy is an OmniAuth strategy for authenticating through Shibboleth (SAML). If you do not know OmniAuth, please visit OmniAuth wiki.

This fork is a minor modification of the original plugin changed to work with headers instead of environment variables, which we need in our environment.
Doing this has some security implications, but in turn allows Apache to function as a proxy while still handling shibboleth.

https://github.com/intridea/omniauth/wiki

The detail of the authentication middleware Shibboleth is introduced in Shibboleth wiki.

https://wiki.shibboleth.net/

OmniAuth basically works as a middleware of Rack applications. It provides environment variable named 'omniauth.auth' (auth hash) after authenticating a user. The 'auth hash' includes the user's attributes. By providing user attributes in the fixed format, applications can easily implement authentication function using multiple authentication methods.

OmniAuth Shibboleth strategy uses the 'auth hash' for providing user attributes passed by Shibboleth SP. It enables developers to use Shibboleth and the other authentication methods, including local auth, together in one application.

Currently, this document is written for Rails applications. If you tried the other environments and it requires some difficulities, please let me know in the Issues page.

https://github.com/toyokazu/omniauth-shibboleth/issues

## Getting Started

### Installation

    % gem install omniauth-shibboleth

### Setup Gemfile

    % cd rails-app
    % vi Gemfile
    gem 'omniauth-shibboleth'

### Setup Shibboleth Strategy

To use OmniAuth Shibboleth strategy as a middleware in your rails application, add the following file to your rails application initializer directory.

    % vi config/initializer/omniauth.rb
    Rails.application.config.middleware.use OmniAuth::Builder do
      provider :shibboleth, {
        :extra_fields => [
          :"unscoped-affiliation",
          :entitlement
        ]
      }
    end

In the above example, 'unscoped-affiliation' and 'entitlement' attributes are additionally provided in the raw_info field. They can be referred like request.env["omniauth.auth"]["extra"]["raw_info"]["unscoped-affiliation"]. The detail of the omniauth auth hash schema is described in the following page.

https://github.com/intridea/omniauth/wiki/Auth-Hash-Schema

'eppn' attribute is used as uid field. 'displayName' and 'mail' attributes are provided as request.env["omniauth.auth"]["info"]["name"] and request.env["omniauth.auth"]["info"]["email"].

These can be changed by :uid_field and :fields option.

    % vi config/initializer/omniauth.rb
    Rails.application.config.middleware.use OmniAuth::Builder do
      provider :shibboleth, {
        :uid_field => :uid,
        :fields => []
      }
    end

In the above example, Shibboleth strategy does not pass any :info fields and use 'uid' attribute as uid fields.

### How to authenticate users

In your application, simply direct users to '/auth/shibboleth' to have them sign in via your company's Shibboleth SP and IdP. '/auth/shibboleth' url simply redirect users to '/auth/shibboleth/callback', so thus you must protect '/auth/shibboleth/callback' by Shibboleth SP.

Example shibd.conf:

    <Location /application_path/auth/shibboleth/callback>
      AuthType shibboleth
      ShibRequestSetting requireSession 1
      require valid-user
    </Location>

Shibboleth strategy just checks the existence of Shib-Session-ID or Shib-Application-ID.

If you want to use omniauth-shibboleth without Apache or IIS, you can try **rack-saml**. It supports a part of Shibboleth SP functions.

https://github.com/toyokazu/rack-saml

Shibboleth strategy assumes the attributes are provided via environment variables because the use of ShibUseHeaders option may cause some problems. The details are discussed in the following page:

https://wiki.shibboleth.net/confluence/display/SHIB2/NativeSPSpoofChecking

To provide Shibboleth attributes via environment variables, we can not use proxy_balancer base approach. Currently we can realize it by using Phusion Passenger as an application container. An example construction pattern is shown in presence_checker application (https://github.com/toyokazu/presence_checker/).

### debug mode

When you deploy a new application, you may want to confirm the assumed attributes are correctly provided by Shibboleth SP. OmniAuth Shibboleth strategy provides a confirmation option :debug. If you set :debug true, you can see the environment variables provided at the /auth/shibboleth/callback uri.

    % vi config/initializer/omniauth.rb
    Rails.application.config.middleware.use OmniAuth::Builder do
      provider :shibboleth, { :debug => true }
    end

## License (MIT License)

Copyright (C) 2011 by Toyokazu Akiyama.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
